[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Hello.
I'm Reece Jones.
And welcome to the 10th and
final module, "Breaking Down
the Door."
By this point, I've given you
plenty of tools to work with,
so you're likely
well on your way.
But what about the
people that are still
struggling to get things going?
Well, if you're one of
those people, don't worry.
I haven't forgotten about you.
In this module, I'm going
to cover some more forceful
techniques to help you break
down the door, as it were.
Please note these
suggestions should
be reserved as last resorts
and not experimented
with willy-nilly.
Firstly, for those
that are still
struggling with dream recall,
consider taking 240 milligrams
of vitamin B6 just
before getting into bed.
The research in this department
is far from conclusive,
but some studies do suggest this
can help kickstart your recall.
I've experimented with it
a little bit over the years
and can confirm there seems to
be some effect, however small.
So give it a go and take
note of the results.
If that doesn't move
the needle, then we
need to experiment with
something a bit more extreme--
waking up in the night
during or just after REM.
This is hardly a long-term
fix as it won't be
good for your overall health.
But if you're really struggling
to recall your dreams,
this might be just
what you need.
So experiment with something
I call "wee back to bed."
The idea is simple.
Drink a good amount of water
just before getting into bed,
and your full bladder should
wake you up two or three
sleep cycles later
on to go and wee.
Then when you wake up,
use this as a chance
to check in with
yourself for recall.
If all goes to plan, you should
wake up directly from a dream.
So it's the perfect
chance to practice.
You can even use this as
an opportunity to MILD.
But what about if a full
bladder doesn't wake you?
Well, perhaps you
could experiment
with setting an alarm
to wake you instead.
There's going to be some
guesswork involved here
to successfully target
the end of a REM cycle.
But knowing that each
one is around 90 minutes
and the last chunk of each
sleep cycle is a REM period,
you can set your alarm
with an educated guess.
Try to target about
three sleep cycles deep,
because the first two cycles
have minimal amounts of REM.
So, for example, just
before getting into bed,
set an alarm for
four-and-a-half hours time.
I'd recommend using
a vibratory alarm
on the wrist in the
form of a smartwatch,
but auditory alarms
are an option too.
In the same way as the "wee
back to bed" technique,
if all goes to plan, this
should wake you up directly
from a dream,
which will give you
a chance to stretch
your recall muscle
and write some details down.
Even if you don't wake
up directly from a dream,
this technique still
has a chance to work.
Do this for a few weeks.
And by the end of it, the
ball should be rolling.
At which point,
you can revert back
to your normal sleep schedule.
And I stress, please do revert
back as soon as you can.
Interrupting your sleep is
inherently bad for your health
and should only be
used as a last resort.
But what about if your
problem isn't recall
and it is instead a problem
with inducing lucidity itself?
Are there any supplements
that can help with that?
Well, whilst nothing
can guarantee lucidity
100% of the time,
there are indeed
some supplements that can nudge
you in the right direction.
For example, perhaps
you could start
taking codeine bitartrate, or
huperzine A, or galantamine.
For the purposes of
this particular module,
let's now have a more in-depth
look at the final one on that
list--
galantamine.
Galantamine is an acetylcholine
esterase inhibitor
and is typically prescribed
to Alzheimer's patients
to ease their symptoms.
Essentially, it
inhibits the breakdown
of acetylcholine, which,
when taken during the night,
can help keep certain
memory functions in place.
This, in turn, given the
right protocol and training,
can trigger a lucid dream.
But is it safe?
Well, yes, but you
certainly don't
want to overdo it as this can
lead to nausea and insomnia.
And it should be
avoided entirely
if you have cardiac or
pulmonary conditions--
asthma, for example-- or
if you're taking certain
medications--
blood pressure
pills, for example.
With those caveats
out of the way,
however, I feel confident
in saying that galantamine
is worth experimenting with,
especially if you're really
struggling to induce
a lucid dream.
But there's quite a
particular way to go about it.
So let's break down the process.
Set an alarm for about
four-and-a-half hours after you
first fall asleep.
We're doing this
so we can target
the end of our third sleep
cycle and the beginning
of our fourth, reason being,
targeting the first three
isn't as effective as they're
marked predominantly by light
and deep sleep and not much
rapid eye movement sleep.
The fourth and fifth sleep cycle
is where the real fun begins,
and the scales start to tilt
towards a higher REM ratio.
This is when you want
to take galantamine.
So wake up and pop a pill.
8 milligrams is the recommended
dose for inducing lucidity.
But if this is your
first time, it's
better to ease in
with 4 milligrams.
Then if you seem to
tolerate the smaller dose,
you can consider moving
up to 8 milligrams
on your second attempt.
After that, proceed to
stay awake for 30 minutes.
Get out of bed and
engage with an activity
that's minimally stimulating--
meditation or
reading, for example.
If you can infuse something
lucid dreaming-related
into that activity,
then that's even better.
So, for example, if
you meditate, meditate
with a mantra, like "tonight
I will lucid dream."
Or if you decide to read,
read a lucid dreaming book.
Next stop, return
to bed and practice
MILD as you're drifting off.
Please refer back
to the MILD Module
to refresh yourself
on this, if need be.
Then from there, as long
as you've stuck rigidly
to this protocol, a
lucid dream very likely
awaits in your next REM cycle.
In fact, personally, every time
I've ever taken galantamine,
I've become lucid.
Your mileage may vary, of
course, but it's quite possible
you'll experience the same--
if not immediately,
then eventually.
And so there we have it.
You now have everything you need
to successfully lucid dream.
From here, continue
reading about it,
watching videos about it, and
generally immersing yourself
in the lifestyle and culture.
And before you know
it, you too will
be a proficient [INAUDIBLE],,
exploring the depths
of your inner worlds.
Good luck and happy dreaming.